_your zenodo badge here_

# tebaldi-etal_2021_tbd

**Extreme sea levels at different global warming levels**

Claudia Tebaldi<sup>1\*</sup>, Roshanka Ranasinghe<sup>2</sup>, Michalis Vousdoukas<sup>3</sup>, D.J. Rasmussen<sup>4</sup>, Ben Vega-Westhoff<sup>5</sup>, Ebru Kirezci<sup>6</sup>, Robert E. Kopp<sup>7</sup>, Ryan Sriver<sup>5</sup>, and Lorenzo Mentaschi<sup>3,8</sup>

<sup>1 </sup> Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, College Park, MD, USA  
<sup>2 </sup> IHE Delft Institute for Water Education, Delft, Netherlands  
<sup>3 </sup> European Commission, Joint Research Centre, Ispra, Italy  
<sup>4 </sup> Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA  
<sup>5 </sup> University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, IL, USA  
<sup>6 </sup> University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia  
<sup>7 </sup> Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ, USA  
<sup>8 </sup> University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy  

\* corresponding author: claudia.tebaldi@pnnl.gov

## Abstract
The Paris agreement focused global climate mitigation policy on limiting global warming to 1.5C or 2C above pre-industrial. Consequently, projections of hazards and risk are increasingly framed in terms of global warming levels (GWLs) rather than emission scenarios. Here, for the first time, we describe changes in extreme sea levels (ESLs) driven by changes in mean sea level associated with a wide range of GWLs, from 1.5C to 5C, and for a large number of locations providing uniform coverage over most of the world's coastlines. Our novel multi-method approach estimates that by 2100 approximately 50% of the 7,000+ locations considered will experience the present-day 100-yr ESL event at least once a year, even under 1.5C of warming, and often well before the end of the century. The tropics appear more sensitive than the Northern high latitudes, where some locations do not see this frequency change even for the highest GWLs.

## Journal reference
Edmonds, J., & Reilly, J. (1983). A long-term global energy-economic model of carbon dioxide release from fossil fuel use. Energy Economics, 5(2), 74-88. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/0140-9883(83)90014-2

## Code reference
References for each minted software release for all code involved.  

These are generated by Zenodo automatically when conducting a release when Zenodo has been linked to your GitHub repository. The Zenodo references are built by setting the author order in order of contribution to the code using the author's GitHub user name.  This citation can, and likely should, be edited without altering the DOI.

If you have modified a codebase that is outside of a formal release, and the modifications are not planned on being merged back into a version, fork the parent repository and add a `.<shortname>` to the version number of the parent and construct your own name.  For example, `v1.2.5.hydro`.

Human, I.M. (2021, April 14). Project/repo:v0.1.0 (Version v0.1.0). Zenodo. http://doi.org/some-doi-number/zenodo.7777777

## Data reference

### Input data
Reference for each minted data source for your input data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My input dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

### Output data
Reference for each minted data source for your output data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My output dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

## Contributing modeling software
| Model | Version | Repository Link | DOI |
|-------|---------|-----------------|-----|
| model 1 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |
| model 2 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |
| component 1 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |

## Reproduce my experiment
Fill in detailed info here or link to other documentation that is a thorough walkthrough of how to use what is in this repository to reproduce your experiment.


1. Install the software components required to conduct the experiment from [Contributing modeling software](#contributing-modeling-software)
2. Download and install the supporting input data required to conduct the experiment from [Input data](#input-data)
3. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to re-create this experiment:

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `step_one.py` | Script to run the first part of my experiment | `python3 step_one.py -f /path/to/inputdata/file_one.csv` |
| `step_two.py` | Script to run the last part of my experiment | `python3 step_two.py -o /path/to/my/outputdir` |

4. Download and unzip the output data from my experiment [Output data](#output-data)
5. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to compare my outputs to those from the publication

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `compare.py` | Script to compare my outputs to the original | `python3 compare.py --orig /path/to/original/data.csv --new /path/to/new/data.csv` |

## Reproduce my figures
Use the scripts found in the `figures` directory to reproduce the figures used in this publication.

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `generate_figures.py` | Script to generate my figures | `python3 generate_figures.py -i /path/to/inputs -o /path/to/outuptdir` |
